answering a table topics question at a
Toastmasters meeting is one of the most
difficult parts of Toastmasters in
general of all aspects and in this video
I am going to give you a live example of
me answering a table topics question at
my local Club in British Columbia Canada
and I will tell you it was not an easy
question hey everyone my name is Wade
Patterson and I am passionate about
impactful communication it is my goal
through this YouTube channel to help
educate you and show you ways that you
can be a more powerful Communicator
which will assist you in your personal
life and in your business life it is one
of those skills that is so important
thank you for taking the time to hop on
to this video if you haven't already
done so please subscribe to my channel
there are many more videos just like
this as I mentioned this video is all
about showing you a live example of a
real tabletop books question I received
recently at my club but I actually have
another video that dives into
considerations to make when answering a
table topics question and how you can
prepare which seems a little bit funny
how can you prepare for a question you
don't know what it's going to be asked
that video gives you a few tips so if
you haven't already after watching this
video hit that link in the description
that's going to take you to that other
video and by watching this video the
live example and the other video that
goes more in depth you're going to be
completely prepared for your next table
topics question now I need to set up
this live example that you're about to
watch with a little bit of context
because I didn't actually film the table
topics Master asking the question so let
me set it up because the question itself
was what did you think about the book
the courage to be disliked that's a book
that I've never red but thankfully the
table topics Master explained some of
the themes of this book and why she was
bringing this in is that a club member
in the previous meeting had talked about
this was a powerful book that he was
reading and encouraged others to read it
so our table topics Master the next
meeting she read it in that week and
then her question was based around the
findings of the book so that's a very
complex question and to add even more
confusion on to this I want to mention
because I reference it in my answer that
the question that was asked to a member
before my question was what is one word
that you were using to describe your
goals for 2023 what I ended up doing is
taking that question and adjusting it
and kind of giving a hybrid answer so I
kind of stole the previous question and
Incorporated it with my question
I know that's incredibly confusing but
this was the result enjoy this live
example thank you for the question Madam
table topics Master fellow Toastmasters
in person and on Zoom
what are my thoughts on that my first
thought is
leading into the previous question about
what the word was it made me think about
what my word is for 2023 and it's
coincidental that you name the title of
the book because the word that I chose
was courageous that's my goal courage
for 2023
it's pushing myself outside of the
comfort zone little things some of you
may have noticed I've hauled in a camera
to Toastmasters meetings along with me
and I'll have to be honest the first
couple times I set it up and had the mic
on there was that nervousness that
self-consciousness of well what are
people in the club going to think is it
going to be distracting all of those
sorts of things and there was a million
reasons not to do it
but I knew that by being able to
document some of my Toastmasters Journey
taking on various roles that this could
be a helpful resource for other people
online who have joined Toastmasters and
want to learn how to do such things I've
also been pushing myself in other
situations
stepping up for roles with work that
otherwise other people probably would
have taken on and that are a little bit
outside my skill set
therefore
the Deep intention of the book that you
referenced
of anger
my mind completely went a different way
but I think I'm answering the question
because you wanted to know what thoughts
I had around that and that is that 2023
hopefully is going to be a year of
Courage for me so thank you for the
question
well there you have it that was my table
topics answer now let's dive into what I
did well and what I could have improved
on and keep in mind for the next time I
take on a table topics question as I
mentioned leading into that live example
the question I was asked was what I
thought about a book that I had never
read called the courage to be disliked
therefore it was a tricky question for
me to answer but I sort of made it my
own and the point of that is table
topics the whole purpose the reason we
have it in Toastmasters is to practice
impromptu speaking and answering a
question on the fly but the goal of it
isn't necessarily to perfectly answer
the question that is asked I mean that's
the Pinnacle that's where you eventually
want to get to but your first Target as
a Toastmaster is simply to stand up and
speak for one to two minutes and
reference the question but as long as
you get through that one to two minutes
standing in front of the audience giving
some sort of
partially coherent answer as far as I'm
concerned mission accomplished with the
table topics piece at Toastmasters I've
been going to Toastmasters long enough
that I expect myself to try to answer
the question directly and so this is
maybe something I didn't do as well I
diverted a little bit and I turned the
question into something that I knew I'd
be able to speak about a little bit
easier but it just goes to show you and
hopefully gives you some confidence for
answering the table topics question that
the real goal here is to simply speak
for one to two minutes and on the
positive that is something I definitely
did a second thing I felt like I did
pretty well with that answer or response
to the table topics question was eye
contact initially I made a lot of eye
contact with the table topics Master but
then I diverted that around the room and
also acknowledged our guests who were
tuning in on Zoom a final thing that
we're worked out well in that answer was
my timing it came in at one minute 40
seconds which is pretty much as good as
it gets for timing on a table topics
question response you have one to two
minutes I say anywhere from one minute
30 seconds to one minute 45 seconds is
The Sweet Spot okay now on to things
that I didn't do so well and the first
was that I failed to use the word of the
day which in this meeting was asinine
using the word of the day at a
Toastmasters meeting is something you
should strive to do in whatever role
you're taking on it's a great real life
challenge because at the beginning of
the meeting the grammarian presents you
with a word and it forces you to think
on the spot maybe you have a prepared
speech of course you haven't
Incorporated that word but by
understanding and being flexible enough
to then take that word and inject it in
your speech that shows a lot of strength
as a speaker a real life application to
that is perhaps you're at a conference
and there's a theme that you find out
maybe you brought in to be a speaker at
this conference and then you learn when
you arrive there's a particular theme
about the conference if you have that
ability to take ideas or take words and
inject them in your speech now you can
incorporate what the theme of the
conference is and it's going to be even
that much more relatable for the
audience so on this particular instance
I really should have used the word
asinine but I failed to do that a second
area where I fell short here was on the
structure this response sort of went in
a few different directions but it didn't
have a solid structure to it anytime we
speak in front of a group of people we
want to structure our speech so that it
has a solid opening a middle or a body
and then a conclusion and I always talk
about this but the most powerful speech
structures are ones that come full
circle so the intro mentions something
and then the conclusion or the outro
comes back and brings that full speech
full circle this particular response I
delivered for the table topics question
I stood up I got through it but it
didn't have a solid structure to it it
was a little bit all over the place that
is something I can improve in the future
feedback I got at the end of the meeting
from the ah counter was that I said an
ah and an um which I think was in this
table topics response I'm not 100 sure
on that I'll have to go back and watch
really carefully but that was something
that threw me completely off guard
because usually I'm very good at not
using crutch or filler words in my
speech but when I'm stuck when I'm
really thinking those are the times
those words creep in
that's definitely an area I want to
smooth over in the future the feedback I
received from our general evaluator at
the end of the meeting was that I did a
good job answering a difficult question
she also appreciated that I mentioned
the camera the live example camera
because this is something I've been
doing more recently at our Toastmasters
meetings and not all club members were
fully aware of my purpose for recording
myself speaking she thought that was
great to give the club that level of
context I hope this video live example
of the table topics role has been
helpful for you maybe it's given you a
little bit of confidence to take on the
role and I'm I kind of like that I used
an example that wasn't a perfect
polished answer this was something where
I got through it I did a decent job but
it shows you that the real goal of a
Toastmasters table topics response
and I've said this a few times
throughout this video but is to get
through it to stand up to speak for one
to two minutes if you can do that as far
as I'm concerned that is a massive skill
I've seen many Toastmasters enter the
program and it takes them maybe six
months or a year to be able to stand up
for that full minute so if you are
already at that level
way to go you are well on your way thank
you so much for taking the time to watch
this video please subscribe to my
channel it helps me out a lot tell
people about it if people are trying to
learn about Communications and you know
that this could be a good resource for
them let them know about the channel
like comment do all of those things
thank you thank you thank you for
watching this video content and I hope
you have an awesome day thank you so
much for watching this video if you are
looking for a little bit of coaching
help with your next speech I am
providing one-on-one evaluations my
contact email is in the video
description reach out to me and let's
discuss what that could look like